<!--
# Threats to Validity

Our study has limitations that impact the validity of our findings, as well as
our ability to generalize them. We describe some of these limitations and their
impacts.

Threats to construct validity concern measurements accurately reflecting the
features of interest. A possible threat to construct validity is our
benchmarks. Errors in the datasets could result in inaccurate effectiveness
measures.

Threats to internal validity include possible defects in our tool chain and
possible errors in our execution of the study procedure, the presence of which
might affect the accuracy of our results and the conclusions we draw from them.
We controlled for these threats by testing our tool chain and by assessing the
quality of our data. Because we applied the same tool chain to all subject
systems, any errors are systematic and are unlikely to affect our results
substantially.

Another threat to internal validity pertains to the value of parameters such as
$K$ that we selected for all models trained. We decided that the activity- and
location-based approaches should have the same parameters to help facilitate
evaluation and comparison. We argue that our study is not about selecting the
best parameters, but to show that our activity-based approach is reasonable.

Threats to external validity concern the extent to which we can generalize our
results. The subjects of our study comprise fourteen open source projects in
Java, so we cannot generalize our results to systems implemented in other
languages. However, the systems are of different sizes, are from different
domains, and have characteristics in common with those of systems developed in
industry.
-->
